

- External Relate Connections

---
Relate is not very useful unless it can be used by normal users on the websites they have access to. Below is a list of places where Relate configuration can be tied into websites to provide nifty, dynamic applications to the unwashed masses.[Relate Mini-World Pages](/relate-components/using-relate-outside-relate/relate-mini-world-pages)
These types of pages are largely obsolete, but originally they facilitated working with Relate records of a specific record type and with well-defined record category requirements. It's complicated, and you probably will never need to care much.[Report and Query Pages](/relate-components/using-relate-outside-relate/query-and-report-pages)Just like the name says, these page types allow a query or report defined in Relate to be displayed on a website. Once the query or report is viewed, the records displayed can be selected which takes the user into the Relate record complete with record navigation. Record navigation then allows access to any forms, merge-reports and wizards that the user has permission to see and which are configured to be shown in navigation.[Wizard Pages](/relate-components/using-relate-outside-relate/wizard-pages)I'm pretty sure you won't be surprised to discover that this page type allows a Relate wizard to be run within a website. For normal or 'general' wizards this page type always uses the wizard to create a new record. For user wizards this page type allows a user to edit the record which represents their own user account. If allowed to be accessed by unauthenticated users, a user wizard in this situation will create a new account and sign the new user in.[Group Entry Pages](/relate-components/using-relate-outside-relate/group-entry-pages)
A group entry page allows a multi-entry form to be filled out once, and a copy of the resulting entry added to each of several selected records. Group entry pages can alternately be used to create entries where most of the data is copied from a common entry, but certain field(s) are filled out for each selected record. Group entry pages require that records be selected to add an entry to. They accomplish this via HQ Groups, which may be dynamically composed via a Relate query or report.[Pagelets](/relate-components/using-relate-outside-relate/composite-pages-and-pagelets)
Pagelets are not actually a page type, they represent a region of a parent page. The most common type of parent page is a composite page, although pagelets can exist on most other types of pages as well. A composite page is composed of multiple rectangular regions called pagelets in various selectable layouts. Each pagelet can be configured independently to display a fixed bit of data or to pull in data from numerous sources from other parts of the BlueStep system. In the context of this discussion the point of interest is that a pagelet can display a merge-report about the current user or about a recently selected record. Pagelets also allow selection of a new record either in-page or in a popup window. Once selected, the new record becomes the source data for any pagelets sourced to merge-reports within the page.[Site Sign-up](/relate-components/using-relate-outside-relate/site-sign-up-and-invite)Connect sites can be configured to allow sign-up. This works like you've probably experienced on other sites: When the user goes to a login screen an option to sign-up for an account is given. A site sign-up requires a user wizard which will direct the user through the steps needed to create an account. On a slightly different note, connect sites and team sites allow invitations to be sent to join the team and/or create an account. If the invitee responds to the invitation and creates an account, they will do so with the aid of a user wizard selected by the person sending the invitation. Finally, a team site may require, as a condition of membership in the team, that the user's account record have a particular record category and thus certain data and forms filled out. The first time the user attempts to access the team, they may be directed to complete a user wizard which simultaneously adds the required category and collects additional information requested by the team administrator.[Team Roster](/relate-components/using-relate-outside-relate/team-roster)
Teams have a membership list. This list of members is displayed on the team roster. Normally the roster only displays the name and email address of each member. However, the team can be configured to display a small (we hope) merge-report for each team member and thus present more complete biographical or contact information. The category requirements of the merge-report selected become the categories required for membership on the team and thus trigger the sign-up wizard discussed in the previous paragraph.[Dynamic Security Groups](/relate-components/using-relate-outside-relate/dynamic-security-groups)The BlueStep platform provides a robust security system. If you are familiar with the idea of an access control list you're 80% there. The security system allows permissions to be granted to individuals or groups. The permissions granted to a piece of data or configuration are inherited by the child elements within the hierarchy. In the case of assigning permissions to groups of people it is generally inconvenient to manually maintain the membership list for each security group. In such cases group membership may be determined dynamically from the results of a query or report. Thus the query or report's search criteria determine group membership based on virtually any piece of information stored within the user's account. Those allowed to modify the data upon which the query searches automatically have the ability to determine group membership and thus permissions are granted by merely modifying a user's account data. This powerful feature allows facility administrators and HR directors to assign permissions based on job title or any other pertinent information.[My Account](/relate-components/using-relate-outside-relate/user-accounts)Whenever a user is logged into the BlueStep platform, there is a small link at the top of nearly every page allowing access to "My Account." As already hinted, a user account is just a special Relate record. As such, additional forms can be attached to user accounts like any other record via the record type and categories. Different types of accounts may be designed using different categories. Any form attached to a user account may be configured for display in the "My Account" area. This is especially common with timecard forms, but can be used to allow the user to edit or view any data about themselves that the system administrator desires.ExerciseFigure out where each of these external elements are created. You may need to create a test Connect site or other test areas to safely explore these elements. Imagine how a few of these elements might be used to create a dynamic or interactive online experience. Try to implement your idea in whole or part. [https://bluestepplatformsupport.bluestep.net/shared/custompage/custompage.jsp?_event=view&_id=445506___8201](https://bluestepplatformsupport.bluestep.net/shared/custompage/custompage.jsp?_event=view&_id=445506___8201) [https://bluestepplatformsupport.bluestep.net/shared/custompage/custompage.jsp?_event=view&_id=445506___8245](https://bluestepplatformsupport.bluestep.net/shared/custompage/custompage.jsp?_event=view&_id=445506___8245)

 
